.TH GIT\-FLEXIMOD "1" "2024\-02\-02" "git\-fleximod 0.3.0" "Generated Python Manual"
.SH NAME
git\-fleximod
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git\-fleximod
[-h] [-C PATH] [-g [GITMODULES]] [-x [EXCLUDE ...]] [-f] [-o] [-v] [-V] [--backtrace] [-d] {update,checkout,status,test} [components ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
    %(prog)s manages checking out groups of gitsubmodules with addtional support for Earth System Models
    

.TP
\fB{update,checkout,status,test}\fR
Subcommand of fleximod, choices are ['update', 'checkout', 'status']

.TP
\fBcomponents\fR
Specific component(s) to checkout. By default, all required submodules are checked out.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-C\fR \fI\,PATH\/\fR, \fB\-\-path\fR \fI\,PATH\/\fR
Toplevel repository directory.  Defaults to top git directory relative to current.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fI\,[GITMODULES]\/\fR, \fB\-\-gitmodules\fR \fI\,[GITMODULES]\/\fR
The submodule description filename. Default: .gitmodules.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fI\,[EXCLUDE ...]\/\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR \fI\,[EXCLUDE ...]\/\fR
Component(s) listed in the gitmodules file which should be ignored.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Override cautions and update or checkout over locally modified repository.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-optional\fR
By default only the required submodules are checked out. This flag will also checkout the optional submodules relative to the toplevel directory.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Output additional information to the screen and log file. This flag can be used up to two times, increasing the verbosity level each time.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-backtrace\fR
DEVELOPER: show exception backtraces as extra debugging output

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
DEVELOPER: output additional debugging information to the screen and log file.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Jim Edwards
.fi
